VERCEL DEPLOYMENT GUIDE

To  launch  this  Python-based  website on Vercel, follow these steps.
Since  Vercel  is  optimized  for  frontend  frameworks and serverless
functions,  deploying  a  Python  app (like FastAPI or Flask) requires
some configuration.

IMPORTANT: DATABASE LIMITATIONS You are currently using a local SQLite
database  (career_coach.db).  Vercel's  environment  is  read-only and
serverless  functions are ephemeral, which means any changes made to a
local  SQLite  database  will  be  lost. You will need to migrate your
database to a cloud provider before deploying.


STEP 1: MIGRATE THE DATABASE
Before deploying, you must migrate away from SQLite. 
1. Choose a cloud database provider like Vercel Postgres, Supabase, Neon, or PlanetScale.
2. Update your database.py and .env to connect to your new cloud database URI instead of the local .db file.

STEP 2: CONFIGURE VERCEL.JSON Vercel needs to know how to build and
route  your  Python application. In the root of your project, create a
file named vercel.json:

{
  "builds": [
    {
      "src": "app.py",
      "use": "@vercel/python"
    }
  ],
  "routes": [
    {
      "src": "/(.*)",
      "dest": "app.py"
    }
  ]
}

(Note:  If  your main entry point is named differently, replace app.py
with  your  entry  file.  Vercel  looks  for an 'app' or 'application'
object inside this file.)

STEP 3: SPECIFY PYTHON VERSION Vercel uses Python 3.9 by default. If
your app requires a different version, you can specify it. Just ensure
all your required packages are listed in requirements.txt.


STEP 4: PUSH TO GITHUB
The easiest way to deploy to Vercel is through GitHub (or GitLab/Bitbucket).
1. Make sure your vercel.json, updated database.py, and requirements.txt are committed.
2. Push your code to a repository on GitHub.


STEP 5: DEPLOY VIA VERCEL DASHBOARD
1. Go to https://vercel.com/ and sign in.
2. Click Add New -> Project.
3. Import your GitHub repository.
4. Important: In the configuration section before clicking deploy:
   - Expand the Environment Variables section.
   - Copy all the variables from your local .env file (like API keys and your new cloud database URL) and paste them here.
   - Make sure your "Root Directory" is set correctly. If your app.py and vercel.json are inside the backend folder, set the Root Directory to 'backend'.
5. Click Deploy.


ALTERNATIVE: DEPLOYING VIA VERCEL CLI
If you prefer not to use GitHub, you can deploy directly from your terminal:
1. Install the CLI: npm i -g vercel
2. Open your terminal in your project directory (c:\Users\Darrel\Desktop\ai\openai\backend).
3. Run the command: vercel
4. Follow the prompts to log in and set up the project. Once it works, run 'vercel --prod' to push it to a production domain. Ensure you add your environment variables to the Vercel dashboard afterward!
